---
title: 'Tidyverse in R vs Pandas in Python'
date: 2021-08-14
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

Both Pandas and Tidyverse perform the same tasks, but Tidyverse has a lot of advantages over Pandas.

Tidyverse in R vs Pandas in Python
======
Both Pandas and Tidyverse perform the same tasks, but Tidyverse has a lot of advantages over Pandas. One such instance is that Tidyverse includes ggplot2, a graphical representation package that is superior to what Pandas offer. Ggplot2 is even more easy to implement than Pandas and Matplotlib combined. No wonder, many developers use R programming language to represent visualisations with less number of codes effortlessly.

While Pandas may not be appealing when it comes to visualisation, but for data manipulation, it stands over Tidyverse. The various packages in Tidyverse such as tidyr and dplyr make it difficult for developers to use it for data manipulation. Having said that, tidyr and dplyr make up for their easy syntax, and in turn, improve implementation.

some data manipulation on iris dataset with Tidyverse in R
======


library(tidyverse)

df1= iris
head(df1)

df2 = df1 %>% rename(V1 = Sepal.Length,V2 = Sepal.Width,V3 = Petal.Length,
                     V4 = Petal.Width, label = Species)


#df2[1:4,1:3]

df2 %>% select("V1":"V3" , label)

df2 %>% select(-V1,-V3)

df2 %>% select(is.numeric)

df2 %>% select(-is.numeric) %>% unique()


########## Filter ##########

df2[df2["V1"]==5 ,]  # traditional coding

df2 %>% filter(V1 == 5)   # using tidyverse

df2 %>% filter((V1 == 5 & V2 >= 3.5))


df2 %>%  filter(label == "setosa") %>%  head

df2 %>%  filter_if(is.numeric,all_vars(. >= 1.6)) %>% head


############## summurize and aggregation #############

df2 %>% group_by(label) %>%  summarize_all(min)

list1 = list(min, max, mean)
df2 %>%  group_by(label) %>%  summarise_all(list1)


#########Muatate / transform ##############

df2 %>%  mutate(nv1 = V1^2,
                nv2 = V1 * V2,
                nv3 = V2 /V4,
                nv4 = V1^2 * mean(V3)^2)
head(df2)


some data manipulation on iris dataset with Pandas in Python
======


from sklearn import datasets
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np

d1 = datasets.load_iris()

df1 = pd.DataFrame(d1.data)
df2 = pd.DataFrame(d1.target)
df2 = df2.rename(columns = {0: "label"})

df3 = pd.concat([df1, df2] , axis=1)
df3 = df3.rename(columns={0:"V1", 1:"V2",2:"V3",3:"V4"})



df3.loc[1:5,"V1":"V2"]
print(df3.loc[1:3,"V1":"V2"])
print(df3.iloc[1:3,0:3])
#df3.head()


df3.filter(["V1" , "V3"])

df3.iloc[1:7,:].filter(["V1" , "V3"])

df3.filter(like = "l")

df3.filter(like = "V")

df3.select_dtypes(include = ["float"])


############## FILTER #############

df3[df3["V1"] == 5]
df3.loc[(df3.V1 == 5) ,]

df3[(df3["V1"] == 5) & (df3["V2"] >= 3.5)]
df3.loc[(df3.V1 == 5) & (df3.V2 >= 3.5) ,]



############## summurize and aggregation #############

df3.mean()

df3.groupby("label").mean()

df3.groupby(["label","V1"]).mean()

df3.groupby("label").agg(maxV1 = ("V1" , "max"), meanV1 = ("V1" , "mean") , minV1 = ("V1", "min"))


###########  mutate/ transform  ###################
df3.transform(lambda x:x/2)
df3.transform(lambda x:(x-min(x)))


df3["nV1"] = df3["V1"] / df3["V2"]


df3["nV2"] = (df3["V1"]**2) * df3["V1"].mean()
