---
title: 'Tidyverse is good for beginners'
date: 2021-01-8
permalink: /posts/2013/08/blog-post-2/

---

I’ve come to strongly prefer the “tidyverse first” educational approach. This isn’t a trivial decision, and this post is my attempt to summarize my opinions and arguments for this position. Overall, they mirror my opinions about ggplot2: packages like dplyr and tidyr are not “advanced”; they’re suitable as a first introduction to R.1



Teach the Tidyverse to beginners
======
Start from scratch with the dplyr package for manipulating a data frame, and introduce others like ggplot2, tidyr and purrr shortly afterwards. Introduce the %>% operator from magrittr immediately, but skip syntax like [[]] and $ or leave them for late in the course. Keep a single-minded focus on data frames.

Tidyverse tools
======
While all of the tools in the Tidyverse suite are deserving of being explored in more depth, we are going to investigate only the tools we will be using most for data wrangling and tidying.

Dplyr
======
The most useful tool in the tidyverse is dplyr. It’s a swiss-army knife for data wrangling. dplyr has many handy functions that we recommend incorporating into your analysis:
* select() extracts columns and returns a tibble.
* arrange() changes the ordering of the rows.
* filter() picks cases based on their values.
* mutate() adds new variables that are functions of existing variables.
* rename() easily changes the name of a column(s)
* summarise() reduces multiple values down to a single summary.
* pull() extracts a single column as a vector.
* _join() group of functions that merge two data frames together, includes (inner_join(), left_join(), right_join(), and full_join()).

Example
======

```ruby

library("dplyr")
library("tidyverse")

mtcar = data.frame(mtcars)

# ------------functional Programming --------

a <- filter(mtcar,carb >1)
b <- group_by(a , cyl)
c <- summarise(b , Ave_mpg = mean(mpg))
d <- arrange(c , desc(Ave_mpg))
print(d)


# ------------tidyverse Programming --------
mtcar %>% filter(carb > 1) %>%  group_by(cyl) %>% summarise(Ave_mpg = mean(mpg)) %>% arrange(desc(Ave_mpg))

```

